The hallmark of prion disease is a short feedback loop between an organism and itself. Thus a healthy system is necessarily born of a large and varied sampling of the environment within which the system is enmeshed. I believe this holds true for animals, people, communities, and most abstracted, complex systems. 

Each team, whether a small ensemble, startup, or university lab imbibes from diversity the means of making more impactful, robust, and resilient products. This level of ideological intermingling, a sense of communal ownership, a feeling of supportive enablement, and a growth mindset are what I would do my absolute best to foster at CU Boulder not just in the lab, but across the entire campus community.

It has ever been my goal to build strong connections, communities, and systems. I grew up without a father and with a mentally ill, single mother. As a child, my home was a small trailer with a leaky roof which was cramped with papers and "important" items. We weren't able to afford the trailer park, so we put this "home" on my mother's boyfriend's lot. Nearly every day, I took the bus home from elementary school, cooked myself top ramen, and spent my evening walking along the beach, watching the sunset. Despite being poor, I was still given ample opportunities to succeed. While I attended high school in Nevada, I became an Eagle Scout, did plenty of community service, participated in the Amateur Radio Emergency Services, played bassoon in the Reno Philharmonic Youth Concert Orchestra and the Reno Video Game Symphony, took 11 AP classes with the rest being mostly honors, taught myself C++, and, in my senior year, took college biology.

I would not have been able to accomplish so much if not for the generosity and assistance my community lent me. In turn, I yearn to give back and help others achieve their dreams who may have begun their lives with comparatively few advantages. I've had friends through the years, grad students included, who have not received the support they've needed. Several of those have, unfortunately, committed suicide. As friends, colleagues, and leaders, mental health is not something we can afford to ignore. Given this, I always make sure to check in with those around me and help them feel seen and appreciated.

Isolated intentions of growth can become malignant, but when we focus on our community, our intentions of growth become positive and uplifting. For example, the difference between greed as "money for money's sake" and the paradox of intolerance is that the latter is qualified with an intent to benefit society. It is an altruistic endeavor to invest money in making money for everyone.

In my professional role as a senior software engineer for Zywave, I was privileged to work on a team of diverse individuals which is rare in the software field. I believe the success our team experienced was largely due to our heterogeneity. For example, our platform handled billions of dollars in insurance quotes a month and experienced virtually 0% downtime. While at Zywave, I made more money than I needed at the time. Instead of simply saving those funds, I believed the best investment I could make was in the skills of those around me. Thus, I paid a few individuals what I could to learn about new technologies and aid me in developing open-source software tools that would save us time in the years to come. Today, my clients and their customers rely on the tools my employees developed as a direct result of sharing the wealth I generated.

Being inclusive of those with disabilities can lend the same level of improved team performance that gender and cultural diversity do. I now work with science communication organizations across the nation, including the Great Basin Native Plant Project, the Great Plains Fire Science Exchange, and the Pacific Climate Exchange. With these organizations, I build websites that are accessible and useful to as many audiences as we can muster. As these groups have come to embrace technological accessibility, the quality of their digital assets improved dramatically. For example, some teams have engaged my company to completely redo their PDFs as web pages that can be read with screen readers, and the new pages are so much better that we were asked to convert them back into PDFs for print.

After reconnecting with my biological father, I began using my cloud platform to assist his endeavors with the Indigenous Environmental Network. Together, we ensure native peoples have access to news on climate change and as much representation in global politics as we can manage. I firmly believe in providing equitable opportunities and will do what I can to enable underrepresented peoples on campus.

It would be my pleasure to uplift the community and encourage the spirit of inclusion and collaborative success at the University of Colorado Boulder.