To be disadvantaged amidst opportunities abides a worthwhile enterprise should perseverance persuade serendipity. Thus was the impetus for my entrance to college and the vacillation that endured. 

Youthful curiosity and a thirst for innovation carried me through a chaotic oscillation between computer and life sciences. In my second year of undergrad, I partnered with Dr. Gunnar Newquist, a Neuroscience researcher at the University of Nevada, Reno (UNR). Together, we founded an artificial intelligence startup focused on what we called "natural intelligence": a low-power, real-time software that mimicked the neuronal behavior of Drosophila melanogaster, C. elegans, and other well studied systems. To gather more business acumen and make myself a more valuable asset to the company, I drafted the bylaws, joined the board, and formed a 501(c)(3) from the Reno Video Game Symphony which I had been playing bassoon in for several years. To make ends meet, after our primary investor backed out, I took a job doing website development for a few organizations on campus and did extra work sweeping greenhouses and washing dishes for the lab I was in. In the end, I found myself with 4 jobs while attending school full-time. Yet after only 3 and a half years, I graduated with a thesised B.S. degree in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology with a minor in Mathematics, albeit with a slightly lower gpa than I would have liked.

My patience and ability to map concepts to novel domains that students can understand has earned me compliments as an instructor both academically and professionally. Even during my undergrad, I had a passion for teaching. While taking a seminar course on bioinformatics, I transitioned from student to TA. The instructor, Dr. Richard Tillet, and I worked so well together that I was able to help him with the course despite no preparation nor knowledge of the lesson plan. Being able to jump into new topics, share my knowledge, and help others has always been deeply rewarding for me.

My thesis mentor, Amy Curran, was the COO for the biotech company ZeaKal. While in school, she trained me in nearly all parts of her company's research pipeline. I learned vector and primer design to effectively run many gel electrophoresis assays. Then I learned cloning and transformation to move our genetic constructs into E. Coli, agrobacterium, and then into several plant species, namely Arabidopsis thaliana and tobacco. While working with Amy, the greenhouse became my home away from home. I spent many evenings handling pest management, fertilizing, and harvesting seeds. I sampled, studied, and cared for many transgenic soybean and Arabidopsis plants. We also did a lot of leaf painting and plating of seeds to determine zygosity. More interestingly, I learned a lot about fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) gas chromatography (GC). Dr. Curran had severely optimized the FAME extraction protocol we used, which gave me a means to quantify the difference in results needed for the biotech industry vs standard academic publications. The GC results we gathered were qualitatively normalized to gene expression as measured by western blot. We also did some other exploratory assays with nile red staining and fluorescence spectroscopy. And while I learned a lot, my thesis work was never formally published as an academic paper.

After college, I spent time in the bay area and los angeles to advance Brain2Bot. When we finally laid the endeavor to rest, I returned to work for Dr. Curran and ZeaKal at UNR. In my role as a Research Associate, I leveraged and improved all the skills I had sampled as an undergrad. Beyond the benchwork, I was able to refine the equations and software I had built for automated FAME GC analysis. That alone made my job of determining transgenic performance much easier. However, I also got to apply my technical craft through working with a friend at Amazon to develop a globally distributed cloud architecture that Dr. Curran, who was in Hawai‘i at the time, and I used for data sharing and collaboration. As an unexpected hands-on project, I even got to refurbish growth chambers and develop dedicated hardware modules for monitoring the growth conditions of our transgenic plants. Plus, I was enamored as ever with assisting the grad students with their genomics processing pipelines, open-cv based image quantification, and other such tech projects. I occasionally mentored undergrads in both the basics of benchwork and in some of the more challenging techniques of plant tissue analysis. Throughout the department, I even became known as the resident expert on western blotting technique.

My life's goal has been to cure death since before I began college. Practically, I'm looking to extend our healthspans far enough that those of us with expertise have an increased capacity to extend our healthspans. I believe that the only reasonable way to aquire the knowledge and skills necessary to do this are through a Ph.D. program, maybe even several. Though, as I have walked the line between life and computer science, I've found that there is an untapped wealth of innovation in the tech startup world that has not made its way to research - academic or private. With a Ph.D. and the right connections, I believe I could assist in building a lab that embraces agile methodologies and automation in a way that allows our future researchers to enmesh themselves in a collaborative environment with machines. We already have robots for lab automation, but, like "AI" today, they fall far from the promise of their ideal.

After the pandemic, I made the tough decision to leave ZeaKal and set out on my own. Over the past few years, I've advised a few startups and worked as a senior software engineer, mentoring other engineers and building collaborative solutions that span multiple products and departments. Today, I run a very slowly but steadily growing website development and hosting business which supports my private efforts of building a software framework that generalizes the neuronal biomimicry of Brain2Bot and includes the lessons and concepts I've gleaned from my biochem studies. I call it "Develop Biology" (or just Biology), and love to talk about it. However, in my attempts to find profitable business applications for the framework, I've realized that the complexity of molecular biology is hard for those in the mechatronics engineering disciplines to grasp. So I'm also working on folding the Biology framework in with my cloud technologies to create a simple language I'm calling Elder (i.e. the Eons Language of Development for Entropic Reduction). I feel that the work my teams and I have put in to building this tech over the years would find stronger purchase in academia. Thus, it is my hope that I can provide CU Boulder with tools for accelerating and bridging research across disciplines. It would be fantastic to do some in-silico modeling of intercellular or even sub cellular mechanisms using my software; but at the very least, I'd like to help my colleagues swiftly develop data analytics pipelines that can be improved by future students. However, all that is secondary to earning a good education and getting a more solid grasp on the mechanisms of senescence.

All of my software and the efforts of those that have worked with me is open source and freely available. I am very committed to driving scientific and technological advancement through a people-first, community-centered mindset. The more I learn about CU Boulder, the more excited I get. The IQ Biology program seems like a great way for me to dive into the university as a whole and find the place that I can do the most good. And, I absolutely love the language many of the professors use while explaining their work. Focus on "our lab" and "our accomplishments" really highlights the team mentality CU Boulder fosters and is exactly what I'm seeking in my next phase of career advancement.

While looking into the professors at CU Boulder, I didn't find anyone that I would not want to work with - which surprised me! However, disregarding culture fit, I believe the works of Dr. Halil Aydin, Dr. Jeffrey Cameron, and Dr. Alexandra Whiteley would be of particular interest to me.

I believe Dr. Aydin's work on neuronal morphology would dovetail quite well with the work I did with Dr. Newquist and endow me with the expertise needed to better address neurodegenerative diseases.

Dr. Cameron's work seems like it's the natural extension of my work with Dr. Curran and ZeaKal. I would absolutely love to improve photosynthesis and ensure we continue to have food and fuel as our climate changes. I've also worked with other startups focused on automated hydroponics for feeding inner city kids and astronauts on the moon and mars. So, I think there's a lot of potential for future collaboration with Dr. Cameron.

Working with Dr. Whiteley seems like it would give me a broad understanding of many different cellular systems and could greatly benefit my future research into a variety of senescence mechanism. 

Overall, I don't think there are any bad choices and I am increasingly excited about the opportunities CU Boulder presents. I'm very much looking forward to building lasting relationships with the campus faculty, and I hope I can bring a productive, multidisciplinary team focus that will help the Boulder community and our planet move toward a brighter future.

